Adds multiple pages to the Onboarding chapter (#302)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/onboarding/backing-up-a-recovery-phrase.md

---
layout: guide
title: Backing up a recovery phrase
description: Handling recovery phrases during onboarding
parent: Onboarding
has_children: true
nav_order: 3
permalink: /guide/onboarding/backing-up-a-recovery-phrase/
main_classes: -no-top-padding
---

# Backing up a recovery phrase

> When a user generates a new wallet, it creates something called a private key (also known as a recovery phrase). A [recovery phrase]({{ 'guide/glossary/#recovery-phrase' | relative_url }}), is a group of 12 or 24 words that let users recover funds if wallet access is lost. Likewise, users who lose both their recovery phrase and wallet access permanently lose their bitcoin. Arguably, this creates one of the toughest design problems within the space.

Reviewer: > it creates something called a private key

I don't think recovery phrase is called private key, is it?

Author: 🚧

> When a user generates a new wallet, it results in creating something called a private key (also known as a recovery phrase). A [recovery phrase]({{ 'guide/glossary/#recovery-phrase' | relative_url }}), is a group of 12 or 24 words that let users recover funds if wallet access is lost. Likewise, users who lose both their recovery phrase and wallet access permanently lose their bitcoin. Arguably, this creates one of the toughest design problems within the space.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a user generates a new wallet, it results in creating something called a private key which is how users access their bitcoin. These private keys are often backed up via a recovery phrase. A [recovery phrase]({{ 'guide/glossary/#recovery-phrase' | relative_url }}), is a group of 12 or 24 words that let users recover funds if wallet access is lost. Users who lose both their recovery phrase and wallet access permanently lose their bitcoin. Arguably, this creates one of the toughest design problems within the space.
```

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include image.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/backing-up-a-recovery-phrase/verify-recovery-phrase.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/backing-up-a-recovery-phrase/verify-recovery-phrase@2x.png"
   width = 250

>    height = 250

Reviewer: Incorrect height. The image is not square.

   alt-text = "Recovery phrase interface"

>    caption = "Typical recovery phrase UI from the [UI Kit](Bitcoin Wallet UI Kit)"

Reviewer: Broken link.

> New-to-crypto users often expect a recovery mechanism that allows them to “regain access to their funds in the case that they lose their seed phrase.”
>
> <cite>As researched by <a href="https://voskart.de/pdf/bits_under_mattress.pdf">Voskobojnikov et al</a></cite>

In the [private key management]({{ 'guide/private-key-management/introduction/' | relative_url }}) chapter, we recommend using an automatic cloud backup for newer users. Users can simply press a button to have their recovery phrase backed up to the cloud without having to physically write down and store it. On top of this, the onboarding process is then sped up and less cumbersome. This type of gateway gives a beginner security without overwhelming them with unfamiliar onboarding actions.

However, there may be times when it is necessary to use a manual backup alternative, as it can be low tech and easily accessible.

> The next sections will look at some UI considerations for [automatic cloud backups]({{ 'guide/onboarding/backing-up-recovery-phrase/automatic-cloud-backup' | relative_url }}) and [manual backups]({{ 'guide/onboarding/backing-up-recovery-phrase/manual-backup' | relative_url }}).

Reviewer: Both links are broken.
